# EfficientPortfolioCreation
University group project for Python for Finance
## Introduction
The analysis is focused on the construction of a portfolio, which has the aim of investigating the role of alternative assets, ESG assets, and standard assets into a single portfolio. Therefore, we decided to include the three assets consistently with a past data-driven analysis. After retrieving the necessary data, firstly we filtered the crypto by considering the respective ecosystem health status. At the same time, the stock universe, made up by the SP500, has been filtered by considering only the top 80% stocks for ESG score. Afterwards, each asset class has been studied on a statistical basis, which allowed us to reduce the sample size and drop the asset which wouldn’t have been impactful on the portfolio’s performances. Lastly, we optimized the weights of each of the two components of the portfolio by considering the Sharpe Ratio of each single asset. Such an analysis drove the portfolio toward his definition, which is optimized (considering the given constraints) by including a 10% of crypto, and a 90% of stocks. To determine the performances of our portfolio, we base the last part of the report on the analysis of the returns of each asset in the last two year, which is the widest possible common time horizon. As reported by the graph which shows the cumulative returns of portfolio, we have been able to outperform both the SP500, and a 100% stock portfolio based on our analysis. To conclude, we can state that ESG assets, and mostly crypto, have a huge impact on the performances of a diversified portfolio, and we have been able to exploit such benefit while controlling for the risk.
